agi/abiogenesis/article.md, before:

---
title: Abiogenesis
created: 2016-02-17
taxonomy:
  category: [Artificial General Intelligence]
  status: in progress
---

## Context

It is interesting to ponder on how we, as human, have arised from non-living matter such as organic compounds. One of the reasons it is of interest is that it may teach us lessons that may apply to how intelligence arised from non-intelligent being or how something of one type can transform into something of another type.

## Learned in this study

* Intelligence as a tree of life

## Things to explore

# Overview

What is the probability of a simple cell, evolving by undirected natural processes? $1$ in $10^{64}$[^1],

The probability of life, a simple cell, evolving by undirected natural process is $1$ in $10^{340,000,000}$, which is known as operationally impossible[^1] [^2].

Abiogenesis assumes that meaningful prescriptive information can be created from a purely physical mechanism, which completely violates the laws of information[^1] [^2]. 

# See also

# Sources
[^1]: Programming of Life: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=00vBqYDBW5s
[^2]: Programming of Life 2: EARTH https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WPkBEYsG6EQ

* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abiogenesis

Commit message:

Abiogenesis: Add a section on biopoiesis. Added notice about the quotes taken from "Programming of Life".

agi/abiogenesis/article.md, after:

---
title: Abiogenesis
created: 2016-02-17
taxonomy:
  category: [Artificial General Intelligence]
  status: in progress
---

## Context
It is interesting to ponder on how we, as human, have arised from non-living matter such as organic compounds. One of the reasons it is of interest is that it may teach us lessons that may apply to how intelligence arised from non-intelligent being or how something of one type can transform into something of another type.

## Learned in this study
* Intelligence as a tree of life

## Things to explore

# Overview

# Programming of Life
Be careful, as the following quotes have been taken from videos that have been claimed to be propaganda from creationists. In this article, I take these claims as facts, but do not consider them as arguments for creationism.

What is the probability of a simple cell, evolving by undirected natural processes? $1$ in $10^{64}$[^1],

The probability of life, a simple cell, evolving by undirected natural process is $1$ in $10^{340,000,000}$, which is known as operationally impossible[^1] [^2].

Abiogenesis assumes that meaningful prescriptive information can be created from a purely physical mechanism, which completely violates the laws of information[^1] [^2].

# Biopoiesis
Bernal coined the term biopoiesis in 1949 to refer to the origin of life. In 1967, he suggested that it occurred in three "stages":[^3]
	1. the origin of biological monomers;
	2. the origin of biological polymers;
	3. the evolution from molecules to cells.

# See also
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neural_development

# Sources
[^1]: Programming of Life: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=00vBqYDBW5s
[^2]: Programming of Life 2: EARTH https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WPkBEYsG6EQ
[^3]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abiogenesis

* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abiogenesis
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Primordial_soup
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Miller%E2%80%93Urey_experiment
