agi/books/article.md, before:

---
title: Book index
created: 2015-10-22
taxonomy:
  category: [Artificial General Intelligence]
  status: in progress
---

The following lists books that I have read and that I suggest to people that are interested in learning more about AGI.

**Note:** The books are sorted by their title in alphabetical order.

| Book title | Amazon |
|---|---|---|
| [A Concise Introduction to Logic](a-concise-introduction-to-logic)| [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Concise-Introduction-Logic-Book-Only/dp/0840034164) |
| Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Artificial-Intelligence-Modern-Approach-Edition/dp/0136042597) |
| [Artificial General Intelligence](artificial-general-intelligence) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Artificial-General-Intelligence-Ben-Goertzel/dp/354023733X) |
| [Cognitive Science: An Introduction to the Science of the Mind](cognitive-science-an-introduction-to-the-science-of-the-mind) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Cognitive-Science-Introduction-Mind/dp/1107653355) |
| [Deep Learning](ian-goodfellow-deep-learning) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Deep-Learning-Adaptive-Computation-Machine/dp/0262035618) |
| [Developmental Biology](scott-gilbert-developmental-biology) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.ca/Developmental-Biology-Scott-F-Gilbert/dp/1605354708) |
| [Elements of Information Theory](thomas-cover-elements-of-information-theory) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Elements-Information-Theory-Telecommunications-Processing/dp/0471241954) |
| [Gödel, Escher, Bach](godel-escher-bach) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/G%C3%B6del-Escher-Bach-Eternal-D-R-Hofstadter/dp/B003UT2E02) |
| [How to Build a Brain: A Neural Architecture for Biological Cognition](chris-eliasmith-how-to-build-a-brain-a-neural-architecture-for-biological-cognition) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/How-Build-Brain-Architecture-Biological/dp/0190262125) |
| [Introduction to Automata Theory, Languages, and Computation](introduction-to-automata-theory-languages-and-computation) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Introduction-Automata-Theory-Languages-Computation/dp/0321455363) |
| [Naive Set Theory](naive-set-theory) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Naive-Set-Theory-Paul-Halmos/dp/1781394660) |
| Neuroscience: Exploring the Brain | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Neuroscience-Exploring-Mark-F-Bear/dp/0781778174) |
| [On Intelligence](jeff-hawkins-on-intelligence) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Intelligence-Jeff-Hawkins/dp/0805078533) |
| [Principles of Computational Modelling in Neuroscience](david-sterratt-principles-of-computational-modelling-in-neuroscience) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Principles-Computational-Modelling-Neuroscience-Sterratt/dp/0521877954) |
| [Superintelligence: Paths, Dangers, Strategies (2014)](nick-bostrom-superintelligence-paths-dangers-strategies) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Superintelligence-Dangers-Strategies-Nick-Bostrom/dp/1501227742) |
| [The Allure of Machinic Life: Cybernetics, Artificial Life, and the New AI](john-johnston-the-allure-of-machinic-life-cybernetics-artificial-life-and-the-new-ai) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.ca/Allure-Machinic-Life-Cybernetics-Artificial/dp/0262515024) |
| The Annotated Turing | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Annotated-Turing-Through-Historic-Computability/dp/0470229055) |
| [The Computer and the Brain](the-computer-and-the-brain) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Computer-Silliman-Memorial-Lectures-Series/dp/0300181116) |
| [The Essential Turing](the-essential-turing) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Essential-Turing-Philosophy-Artificial-Intelligence/dp/0198250800) |
| [The Society of Mind](the-society-of-mind) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/The-Society-Mind-Marvin-Minsky/dp/0671657135) |
| [Theory of self-reproducing automata](theory-of-self-reproducing-automata) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Theory-Self-reproducing-Automata-John-Neumann/dp/0252727339) |

Commit message:

Book index: Add "Life 3.0: Being Human in the Age of Artificial Intelligence".

agi/books/article.md, after:

---
title: Book index
created: 2015-10-22
taxonomy:
  category: [Artificial General Intelligence]
  status: in progress
---

The following lists books that I have read and that I suggest to people that are interested in learning more about AGI.

**Note:** The books are sorted by their title in alphabetical order.

| Book title | Amazon |
|---|---|---|
| [A Concise Introduction to Logic](a-concise-introduction-to-logic)| [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Concise-Introduction-Logic-Book-Only/dp/0840034164) |
| Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Artificial-Intelligence-Modern-Approach-Edition/dp/0136042597) |
| [Artificial General Intelligence](artificial-general-intelligence) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Artificial-General-Intelligence-Ben-Goertzel/dp/354023733X) |
| [Cognitive Science: An Introduction to the Science of the Mind](cognitive-science-an-introduction-to-the-science-of-the-mind) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Cognitive-Science-Introduction-Mind/dp/1107653355) |
| [Deep Learning](ian-goodfellow-deep-learning) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Deep-Learning-Adaptive-Computation-Machine/dp/0262035618) |
| [Developmental Biology](scott-gilbert-developmental-biology) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.ca/Developmental-Biology-Scott-F-Gilbert/dp/1605354708) |
| [Elements of Information Theory](thomas-cover-elements-of-information-theory) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Elements-Information-Theory-Telecommunications-Processing/dp/0471241954) |
| [Gödel, Escher, Bach](godel-escher-bach) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/G%C3%B6del-Escher-Bach-Eternal-D-R-Hofstadter/dp/B003UT2E02) |
| [How to Build a Brain: A Neural Architecture for Biological Cognition](chris-eliasmith-how-to-build-a-brain-a-neural-architecture-for-biological-cognition) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/How-Build-Brain-Architecture-Biological/dp/0190262125) |
| [Introduction to Automata Theory, Languages, and Computation](introduction-to-automata-theory-languages-and-computation) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Introduction-Automata-Theory-Languages-Computation/dp/0321455363) |
|  [Life 3.0: Being Human in the Age of Artificial Intelligence](max-tegmark-life-3-0-being-human-in-the-age-of-artificial-intelligence) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Life-3-0-Being-Artificial-Intelligence/dp/1101946598) |
| [Naive Set Theory](naive-set-theory) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Naive-Set-Theory-Paul-Halmos/dp/1781394660) |
| Neuroscience: Exploring the Brain | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Neuroscience-Exploring-Mark-F-Bear/dp/0781778174) |
| [On Intelligence](jeff-hawkins-on-intelligence) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Intelligence-Jeff-Hawkins/dp/0805078533) |
| [Principles of Computational Modelling in Neuroscience](david-sterratt-principles-of-computational-modelling-in-neuroscience) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Principles-Computational-Modelling-Neuroscience-Sterratt/dp/0521877954) |
| [Superintelligence: Paths, Dangers, Strategies (2014)](nick-bostrom-superintelligence-paths-dangers-strategies) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Superintelligence-Dangers-Strategies-Nick-Bostrom/dp/1501227742) |
| [The Allure of Machinic Life: Cybernetics, Artificial Life, and the New AI](john-johnston-the-allure-of-machinic-life-cybernetics-artificial-life-and-the-new-ai) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.ca/Allure-Machinic-Life-Cybernetics-Artificial/dp/0262515024) |
| The Annotated Turing | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Annotated-Turing-Through-Historic-Computability/dp/0470229055) |
| [The Computer and the Brain](the-computer-and-the-brain) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Computer-Silliman-Memorial-Lectures-Series/dp/0300181116) |
| [The Essential Turing](the-essential-turing) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Essential-Turing-Philosophy-Artificial-Intelligence/dp/0198250800) |
| [The Society of Mind](the-society-of-mind) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/The-Society-Mind-Marvin-Minsky/dp/0671657135) |
| [Theory of self-reproducing automata](theory-of-self-reproducing-automata) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Theory-Self-reproducing-Automata-John-Neumann/dp/0252727339) |
