agi/presentations/general-learning-algorithms/article.md, before:

---
title: General Learning Algorithms
created: 2016-03-18
taxonomy:
  category: [Artificial General Intelligence]
  status: finished
---

## Context

This is a summary of the notes I've taken while listening to the presentation by Demis Hassabis available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=08Cl7ii6viY. It builds on the presentation [Systems Neuroscience and AGI](systems-neuroscience-and-agi) but can be watched on its own.

## Learned in this study

## Things to explore

# Overview
* DeepMind was founded in 2010
* Acquired by Google in 2014
* An Apollo Programme for AI (>100 scientists)
* A new way to organize science

## General-Purpose Learning Machines
* Learn automatically from raw inputs - not pre-programmed
* General - same system can operate across a wide range of tasks

## Reinforcement Learning Framework
* Build the best approximate model of the world
* Update the model every time a new observation comes in
* Use the model to make plans (simulations) toward a goal
* Reinforcement learning in the brain through the dopamine system called TD (temporal difference) learning

## Atari Agents
* Agents just get the raw pixels as inputs (~30K)
* Goal is simply to maximize score
* Everything learnt from scratch
* One system to play all the different games

## Transfer Learning
* The key to flexible general intelligence
	* Apply previously learnt knowledge to a new situation
* Identify the salient features in an environment
* Re-represent those features as an abstract concept
* Select and appropriately apply prior knowledge

## Adding Memory to Neural Networks
* Classical Computer (leads to)
* Recurrent Neural Network + Memory Store (leads to)
* Neural Turing Machine

## Why work on AGI and spend life/career on it
* Information overload and system complexity
* Solving AI is potentially the meta-solution to all these problems
* Empowering people through knowledge

# See also
* [Systems Neuroscience and AGI](systems-neuroscience-and-agi)
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Temporal_difference_learning

# Sources
* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=08Cl7ii6viY

Commit message:

General Learning Algorithms: Update with reference to another presentation entitled "The Theory of Everything" which covers the same material.

agi/presentations/general-learning-algorithms/article.md, after:

---
title: General Learning Algorithms
created: 2016-03-18
taxonomy:
  category: [Artificial General Intelligence]
  status: finished
---

## Context

This is a summary of the notes I've taken while listening to the presentation by Demis Hassabis available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=08Cl7ii6viY. It builds on the presentation [Systems Neuroscience and AGI](systems-neuroscience-and-agi) but can be watched on its own. This presentation covers most of the content in the presentation https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rbsqaJwpu6A as well.

## Learned in this study

## Things to explore

# Overview
* DeepMind was founded in 2010
* Acquired by Google in 2014
* An Apollo Programme for AI (>100 scientists)
* A new way to organize science

## General-Purpose Learning Machines
* Learn automatically from raw inputs - not pre-programmed
* General - same system can operate across a wide range of tasks

## Reinforcement Learning Framework
* Build the best approximate model of the world
* Update the model every time a new observation comes in
* Use the model to make plans (simulations) toward a goal
* Reinforcement learning in the brain through the dopamine system called TD (temporal difference) learning

## Atari Agents
* Agents just get the raw pixels as inputs (~30K)
* Goal is simply to maximize score
* Everything learnt from scratch
* One system to play all the different games

## Transfer Learning
* The key to flexible general intelligence
	* Apply previously learnt knowledge to a new situation
* Identify the salient features in an environment
* Re-represent those features as an abstract concept
* Select and appropriately apply prior knowledge

## Adding Memory to Neural Networks
* Classical Computer (leads to)
* Recurrent Neural Network + Memory Store (leads to)
* Neural Turing Machine

## Why work on AGI and spend life/career on it
* Information overload and system complexity
* Solving AI is potentially the meta-solution to all these problems
* Empowering people through knowledge

# See also
* [Systems Neuroscience and AGI](systems-neuroscience-and-agi)
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Temporal_difference_learning

# Sources
* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=08Cl7ii6viY
* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rbsqaJwpu6A (covered by this presentation)
