agi/papers/article.md, before:

---
title: Papers
created: 2015-10-25
taxonomy:
  category: [Artificial General Intelligence]
  status: in progress
---

The following lists papers I've read and reviewed or made notes for.

# Artificial General Intelligence
## Alan Turing

* [Intelligent Machinery (1948)](alan-turing-intelligent-machinery)
* [Computing Machinery and Intelligence (1950)](alan-turing-computing-machinery-and-intelligence)

## Alex Graves
* [Neural Turing Machines (2014)](alex-graves-neural-turing-machines)

## Breden Lake
* [Building Machines That Learn and Think Like People (2016)](breden-lake-building-machines-that-learn-and-think-like-people)

## Eliezer Yudkowsky

* [Levels of Organization in General Intelligence (2007)](eliezer-yudkowsky-levels-of-organization-in-general-intelligence)

## Google DeepMind

* [Playing Atari with Deep Reinforcement Learning (2013)](playing-atari-with-deep-reinforcement-learning)
* [Mastering the Game of Go with Deep Neural Networks and Tree Search (2016)](mastering-the-game-of-go-with-deep-neural-networks-and-tree-search)

## Hugo de Garis

* [Artificial Brains (2007)](hugo-de-garis-artificial-brains)

## Jack Copeland

* [Computable Number: A Guide (2004)](jack-copeland-computable-number-a-guide)

## Jürgen Schmidhuber

* [The New AI: General & Sound & Relevant for Physics (2007)](jurgen-schmidhuber-the-new-ai-general-sound-relevant-for-physics)
* [Gödel Machines: Fully Self-Referential Optimal Universal Self-improvers (2007)](jurgen-schmidhuber-godel-machines-fully-self-referential-optimal-universal-self-improvers)

## Keith Hoyes

* [3D Simulation: the Key to A.I. (2007)](keith-hoyes-3d-simulation-the-key-to-ai)

## Łukasz Kaiser

* [Program Search as a Path to Artificial General Intelligence (2007)](lukasz-kaiser-program-search-as-a-path-to-artificial-general-intelligence)

## Marcus Hutter

* [Universal Algorithmic Intelligence: A Mathematical Top→Down Approach (2007)](marcus-hutter-universal-algorithmic-intelligence-a-mathematical-top-down-approach)

## Novamente

* [Contemporary Approaches to Artificial General Intelligence (2007)](contemporary-approaches-to-artificial-general-intelligence)
* [The Novamente Artificial Intelligence Engine (2007)](the-novamente-artificial-intelligence-engine)

## Open NARS
* [The OpenNARS implementation of the Non-Axiomatic Reasoning System (2016)](the-opennars-implementation-of-the-non-axiomatic-reasoning-system)

## Pei Wang

* [The Logic of Intelligence (2007)](pei-wang-the-logic-of-intelligence)

## Peter Voss

* [Essentials of General Intelligence: The Direct Path to Artificial General Intelligence (2007)](peter-voss-essentials-of-general-intelligence-the-direct-path-to-artificial-general-intelligence)

## Vladimir Red'ko

* [The Natural Way to Artificial Intelligence (2007)](vladimir-redko-the-natural-way-to-artificial-intelligence)

# Prioritization
## Joachim Karlsson
* [An evaluation of methods for prioritizing software requirements (1997)](an-evaluation-of-methods-for-prioritizing-software-requirements)

## Viggo Ahl
[An experimental comparison of five prioritization methods (2005)](viggo-ahl-an-experimental-comparison-of-five-prioritization-methods)

Commit message:

EURISKO: A Program That Learns New Heuristics and Domain Concepts: Initial set of notes (sections 1 to 1.2).

agi/papers/article.md, after:

---
title: Papers
created: 2015-10-25
taxonomy:
  category: [Artificial General Intelligence]
  status: in progress
---

The following lists papers I've read and reviewed or made notes for.

# Artificial General Intelligence
## Alan Turing

* [Intelligent Machinery (1948)](alan-turing-intelligent-machinery)
* [Computing Machinery and Intelligence (1950)](alan-turing-computing-machinery-and-intelligence)

## Alex Graves
* [Neural Turing Machines (2014)](alex-graves-neural-turing-machines)

## Breden Lake
* [Building Machines That Learn and Think Like People (2016)](breden-lake-building-machines-that-learn-and-think-like-people)

## Douglas B. Lenat
[EURISKO: A Program That Learns New Heuristics and Domain Concepts (1982)](douglas-lenat-eurisko-a-program-that-learns-new-heuristics-and-domain-concepts)

## Eliezer Yudkowsky

* [Levels of Organization in General Intelligence (2007)](eliezer-yudkowsky-levels-of-organization-in-general-intelligence)

## Google DeepMind

* [Playing Atari with Deep Reinforcement Learning (2013)](playing-atari-with-deep-reinforcement-learning)
* [Mastering the Game of Go with Deep Neural Networks and Tree Search (2016)](mastering-the-game-of-go-with-deep-neural-networks-and-tree-search)

## Hugo de Garis

* [Artificial Brains (2007)](hugo-de-garis-artificial-brains)

## Jack Copeland

* [Computable Number: A Guide (2004)](jack-copeland-computable-number-a-guide)

## Jürgen Schmidhuber

* [The New AI: General & Sound & Relevant for Physics (2007)](jurgen-schmidhuber-the-new-ai-general-sound-relevant-for-physics)
* [Gödel Machines: Fully Self-Referential Optimal Universal Self-improvers (2007)](jurgen-schmidhuber-godel-machines-fully-self-referential-optimal-universal-self-improvers)

## Keith Hoyes

* [3D Simulation: the Key to A.I. (2007)](keith-hoyes-3d-simulation-the-key-to-ai)

## Łukasz Kaiser

* [Program Search as a Path to Artificial General Intelligence (2007)](lukasz-kaiser-program-search-as-a-path-to-artificial-general-intelligence)

## Marcus Hutter

* [Universal Algorithmic Intelligence: A Mathematical Top→Down Approach (2007)](marcus-hutter-universal-algorithmic-intelligence-a-mathematical-top-down-approach)

## Novamente

* [Contemporary Approaches to Artificial General Intelligence (2007)](contemporary-approaches-to-artificial-general-intelligence)
* [The Novamente Artificial Intelligence Engine (2007)](the-novamente-artificial-intelligence-engine)

## Open NARS
* [The OpenNARS implementation of the Non-Axiomatic Reasoning System (2016)](the-opennars-implementation-of-the-non-axiomatic-reasoning-system)

## Pei Wang

* [The Logic of Intelligence (2007)](pei-wang-the-logic-of-intelligence)

## Peter Voss

* [Essentials of General Intelligence: The Direct Path to Artificial General Intelligence (2007)](peter-voss-essentials-of-general-intelligence-the-direct-path-to-artificial-general-intelligence)

## Vladimir Red'ko

* [The Natural Way to Artificial Intelligence (2007)](vladimir-redko-the-natural-way-to-artificial-intelligence)

# Prioritization
## Joachim Karlsson
* [An evaluation of methods for prioritizing software requirements (1997)](an-evaluation-of-methods-for-prioritizing-software-requirements)

## Viggo Ahl
[An experimental comparison of five prioritization methods (2005)](viggo-ahl-an-experimental-comparison-of-five-prioritization-methods)
