identity-and-access-management/article.md, before:

---
title: Identity and access management
created: 2017-02-08
taxonomy:
  #type: post
  category: [Programming]
  tag: [aws, groups, users, roles, policies]
  status: in progress
---

## Context

## Learned in this study

## Things to explore

# Overview

# AWS
AWS has the concept of groups, users, roles and policies.

## Groups
A group is a list of users to which are assigned policies (permissions).

A useful feature they also provide is the *Access Advisor*, which allows administrators to observe when certain policies are being used and by which users.

## Users
Users represent an entity that has access to the AWS platform. They may access AWS either programmatically and/or through the console to administer the account.

During the using creation process, the creator has the ability to assign the user to a group, copy permissions from an existing user or attach policies to the user.

Upon creation of a user with programmatic access, the user is generally given an access key with its corresponding secret.

## Roles
Roles are very similar to groups conceptually, but instead of being "persistent", they are temporary. While you will generally assign one or many groups to a user, roles are not assigned to a user (or vice-versa, a user is not assigned one or many roles) but given based on certain criteria. A user takes a given role and only receives this role's policies/permissions until he returns to his own identity.

## Policies
A policy is a set of rules that determines the permissions given to a user, group or role. It has a name, description and a policy document, which describes the permissions.

The policy document is a JSON formatted object which contains a version and a list of statements. Each statement has an effect (Allow/Deny), a list of actions and a list of resources to which it applies.

### Actions
Within AWS, each service has a unique lowercase identifier[^1]. Within each of these services, a list of actions exists, which can be granted (or denied) to an identity. Examples of actions are:
* `*`: Allowed to use all actions under all services
* `s3:*`: Allowed to use all actions under the `s3` service
* `s3:GetObject`: Allowed to use the `GetObject` action under the `s3` service

### Resources
Resources represent entities within their given service. For example, `arn:aws:s3:::some-bucket/*` represents the content under the `some-bucket` bucket in the `s3` service.

Format : `arn:$partition:$service:$region:$account-id:$resource`[^2]

# See also

# References
[^1]: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-arns-and-namespaces.html#genref-aws-service-namespaces
[^2]: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-arns-and-namespaces.html#genref-arns

* https://blog.gopheracademy.com/advent-2015/hydra-auth/

Commit message:

Identity and access management: Add link to my policy evaluator project. Add links to the WS policies evaluation logic and IAM Policy Reference documentation.

identity-and-access-management/article.md, after:

---
title: Identity and access management
created: 2017-02-08
taxonomy:
  #type: post
  category: [Programming]
  tag: [aws, groups, users, roles, policies]
  status: in progress
---

## Context

## Learned in this study

## Things to explore

# Overview

# AWS
AWS has the concept of groups, users, roles and policies.

## Groups
A group is a list of users to which are assigned policies (permissions).

A useful feature they also provide is the *Access Advisor*, which allows administrators to observe when certain policies are being used and by which users.

To keep things simple, groups cannot be nested into other groups.

## Users
Users represent an entity that has access to the AWS platform. They may access AWS either programmatically and/or through the console to administer the account.

During the using creation process, the creator has the ability to assign the user to a group, copy permissions from an existing user or attach policies to the user.

Upon creation of a user with programmatic access, the user is generally given an access key with its corresponding secret.

## Roles
Roles are very similar to groups conceptually, but instead of being "persistent", they are temporary. While you will generally assign one or many groups to a user, roles are not assigned to a user (or vice-versa, a user is not assigned one or many roles) but given based on certain criteria. A user takes a given role and only receives this role's policies/permissions until he returns to his own identity.

## Policies
A policy is a set of rules that determines the permissions given to a user, group or role. It has a name, description and a policy document, which describes the permissions.

The policy document is a JSON formatted object which contains a version and a list of statements. Each statement has an effect (Allow/Deny), a list of actions and a list of resources to which it applies.

You can learn more about [AWS policies evaluation logic](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference_policies_evaluation-logic.html). Their [IAM Policy Reference](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference_policies.html) might also prove useful in understanding the various bits that compose the policy document.

### Actions
Within AWS, each service has a unique lowercase identifier[^1]. Within each of these services, a list of actions exists, which can be granted (or denied) to an identity. Examples of actions are:
* `*`: Allowed to use all actions under all services
* `s3:*`: Allowed to use all actions under the `s3` service
* `s3:GetObject`: Allowed to use the `GetObject` action under the `s3` service

### Resources
Resources represent entities within their given service. For example, `arn:aws:s3:::some-bucket/*` represents the content under the `some-bucket` bucket in the `s3` service.

Format : `arn:$partition:$service:$region:$account-id:$resource`[^2]

# See also
* [Policy evaluator](https://github.com/tomzx/policy-evaluator)

# References
[^1]: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-arns-and-namespaces.html#genref-aws-service-namespaces
[^2]: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-arns-and-namespaces.html#genref-arns

* https://blog.gopheracademy.com/advent-2015/hydra-auth/
