---
title: Black-box reverse engineering
created: 2016-05-06
taxonomy:
  category: [Artificial General Intelligence]
  status: in progress
---

## Context

## Learned in this study

## Things to explore
* Reversing a hash function
* Reversing a random generator function
* Reversing the prime number generator function
* Given that functions often expect arguments, how can we define a sensible set of test values?

# Overview

* Do a single operation, call all method which return a value and check what they return
* Call them multiple time to assert idempotences
* Attempt to build a state machine out of the trials

## Analysis algorithm

```python
def ANALYSIS(program):
	state = () # a list of states, initially empty
	functions = program.functions # a list of all functions in the program
	nonVoidFunctions = program.nonVoidFunctions # a list of functions of the program under analysis which return a non-void result upon being called
	callLength = 1 # the number of sequential functions to call
	while true:
		program.reset # reinitialize any state in the program, assumes that no state persistency exists between resets
		functionSequence # a list of functions to call, different than the previously tested sequences
		output = () # the list of output generated by calling the function sequence functions
		for function in functionSequence:
			result = call(program, function)
			output.append(result)
```

# Tests
## Generic
* Is it possible to deduce/infer pre-conditions/post-conditions?

## Numbers
* Is it always positive/negative/zero?
* Is it always incrementing/decrementing?
* Is it always the same number/set of numbers?
* Are the numbers within a given range?
* Can the produced numbers be approximated using linear functions? Lagrange polynomial?
* Are the numbers always integers or reals?

## Strings
* Are the strings always the same length?
* What is the set of alphabet used?
* Are the strings produced increasing/decreasing in length?
* Are some parts of the produced strings constant (always present)?
* What is the minimal/maximal string length that can be produced?

## Dynamic vs static languages

### Dynamic
* Test a variety of types (boolean, character, string, integer, float, miscellaneous structure) and see which ones crash and which ones don't
	* Once a list of variable types have been determined, use the same procedure as if it was static code

### Static
#### Generic
* Test null values

#### Numbers
* Test type extremums (min/max values)
* Test regular number set (min, -1, 0, 1, max)

#### Strings
* Test uppercase/lowercase/random-case

# TBD
A programmer starts by defining a feature's requirements. Then he writes a piece of code that fulfills these requirements. This code is then parsed, compiled and executed by the computer.

During this process, the variable names used by the programmer are stripped out and converted into placeholders.

```php
function sum($left, $right) {
	return $left + $right;
}
```

```php
function a1($a1, $a2) {
	$a3 = $a1 + $a2;
	return $a3;
}
```

```php
sum(3, sum(4, 6));
```

# See also

# References
*  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reverse_engineering
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black-box_testing
*  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Static_single_assignment_form
*  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Optimizing_compiler