agi/Deconstruction of a mind.md, before:

# De/construction of the mind

All senses are comparable to data streams.

- Packet of data
- Each packet contains a body of information/data
- Additional headers/structure facilitate the transport of data (think [OSI model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OSI_model))

If we see the mind as a black box, we can say that there are 5 data streams, one per sense. For my particular interest, I will only concentrate on sight and hearing. Hopefully the method is generic enough that the sense itself does not matter.

The mind black box has to be able to memorize things. It must also have the ability to recognize previously "observed" stream of data (recognize that it already heard a specific sound or seen a particular object). To regonize, it has to be able to map multiple experiences to a single identity.

One can think of the black box as composed of many smaller black boxes. Each sub-black box would deal with its own channel. It would have its own dedicated storage area and format/structure.

One can also think that the black box is monolithic, that is, there is no specialized units. Instead of  dedicated and specialized storage, you only have a general purpose storage medium.

When one experiences a data stream, there are many things that appears to correlate to that event. For one, events have a spatio-temporal proximity relation between one another.

-----

How is "experience" stored and retrieved in a non-expensive manner?

* Lossy compression?
* Store unique/vivid characteristics
	* How does one determine what constitutes a unique characteristic?

Commit message:

Update all AGI articles to use the new "Learned in this study" and "Things to explore" format.

agi/Deconstruction of a mind.md, after:

# De/construction of the mind

## Learned in this study

## Things to explore

# Overview

All senses are comparable to data streams.

- Packet of data
- Each packet contains a body of information/data
- Additional headers/structure facilitate the transport of data (think [OSI model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OSI_model))

If we see the mind as a black box, we can say that there are 5 data streams, one per sense. For my particular interest, I will only concentrate on sight and hearing. Hopefully the method is generic enough that the sense itself does not matter.

The mind black box has to be able to memorize things. It must also have the ability to recognize previously "observed" stream of data (recognize that it already heard a specific sound or seen a particular object). To regonize, it has to be able to map multiple experiences to a single identity.

One can think of the black box as composed of many smaller black boxes. Each sub-black box would deal with its own channel. It would have its own dedicated storage area and format/structure.

One can also think that the black box is monolithic, that is, there is no specialized units. Instead of  dedicated and specialized storage, you only have a general purpose storage medium.

When one experiences a data stream, there are many things that appears to correlate to that event. For one, events have a spatio-temporal proximity relation between one another.

-----

How is "experience" stored and retrieved in a non-expensive manner?

* Lossy compression?
* Store unique/vivid characteristics
	* How does one determine what constitutes a unique characteristic?
